[DOCS] What's new in 8.0 (#1532)
elastic/security-docs: docs/whats-new.asciidoc

[[whats-new]]
[chapter]
= What's new in 8.0

Here are the highlights of what’s new and improved in {elastic-sec}!

> For detailed information about this release, see the <<release-notes, Release notes>>.

Reviewer: Instead of "see", maybe "check out"? Or "visit", "refer to," etc.

Other versions: {security-guide-all}/7.17/whats-new.html[7.17]| {security-guide-all}/7.16/whats-new.html[7.16] | {security-guide-all}/7.15/whats-new.html[7.15] | {security-guide-all}/7.14/whats-new.html[7.14] | {security-guide-all}/7.13/whats-new.html[7.13] | {security-guide-all}/7.12/whats-new.html[7.12] | {security-guide-all}/7.11/whats-new.html[7.11] | {security-guide-all}/7.10/whats-new.html[7.10] |
{security-guide-all}/7.9/whats-new.html[7.9]

[discrete]
[[name-changes-8.0]]
== Terminology changes

> *Index patterns* has been renamed to *Data views*

Reviewer: Can't tell if this is a sentence (missing a period) or an unofficial heading?

If it's a heading, maybe make the whole thing bold (to be consistent with other headings) and use italic for the terms:
```suggestion
*_Index patterns_ has been renamed to _Data views_*
```

> A {kibana-ref}/data-views.html[data view] data view selects the data to use and allows you to define properties of the fields. A data view can point to one or more indices, data stream, or index aliases. Please note that *index patterns* only refers to a group of defined index patterns. In {elastic-sec}, the default security data view includes index patterns from `auditbeat-*`, `filebeat-*`, `logs-*`, and `winlogbeat-*`. You can {kibana-ref}/data-views.html#settings-create-pattern[create a new data view] to update these settings.

Reviewer: I'm not certain if "data streams" should be plural, but if not I'd change to "_a_ data stream".

Also, is it worth noting that data views are a Kibana-wide change, not just Elastic Security?

```suggestion
A {kibana-ref}/data-views.html[data view] selects the data to use and allows you to define properties of the fields. A data view can point to one or more indices, data streams, or index aliases. Please note that *index patterns* only refers to a group of defined index patterns. In {elastic-sec}, the default security data view includes index patterns from `auditbeat-*`, `filebeat-*`, `logs-*`, and `winlogbeat-*`. You can {kibana-ref}/data-views.html#settings-create-pattern[create a new data view] to update these settings.
```

> A {kibana-ref}/data-views.html[data view] data view selects the data to use and allows you to define properties of the fields. A data view can point to one or more indices, data stream, or index aliases. Please note that *index patterns* only refers to a group of defined index patterns. In {elastic-sec}, the default security data view includes index patterns from `auditbeat-*`, `filebeat-*`, `logs-*`, and `winlogbeat-*`. You can {kibana-ref}/data-views.html#settings-create-pattern[create a new data view] to update these settings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A {kibana-ref}/data-views.html[data view] selects the data to use and allows you to define properties of the fields. A data view can point to one or more indices, data stream, or index aliases. Note that *index patterns* only refers to a group of defined index patterns. In {elastic-sec}, the default security data view includes index patterns from `auditbeat-*`, `filebeat-*`, `logs-*`, and `winlogbeat-*`. You can {kibana-ref}/data-views.html#settings-create-pattern[create a new data view] to update these settings.
```

> A {kibana-ref}/data-views.html[data view] data view selects the data to use and allows you to define properties of the fields. A data view can point to one or more indices, data stream, or index aliases. Please note that *index patterns* only refers to a group of defined index patterns. In {elastic-sec}, the default security data view includes index patterns from `auditbeat-*`, `filebeat-*`, `logs-*`, and `winlogbeat-*`. You can {kibana-ref}/data-views.html#settings-create-pattern[create a new data view] to update these settings.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By switching between {kibana-ref}/data-views.html[data views], you can select which data to display in Kibana. Each data view points to one or more index patterns, data streams, or index aliases. *Index pattern* now refers to a string that selects one or more indices. For example, in {elastic-sec}, the default security data view includes the index patterns `auditbeat-*`, `filebeat-*`, `logs-*`, and `winlogbeat-*`. You can {kibana-ref}/data-views.html#settings-create-pattern[create a new data view] to update these defaults.
```
Might have gotten a bit carried away but I feel this is more clear.

--
image::whats-new/images/8.0/data-view.png[]
--
[discrete]
[[index-updates-8.0]]
== Index and privilege updates

*Index changes*

> * The system index for detection alerts has been renamed from `.siem-signals` to `.alerts-security.alerts`. As such, the schema used for alert documents in {elastic-sec} has changed. Users that access documents in the `.siem-signals` indices will be able to modify their API queries and scripts to operate properly on the new 8.0 alert documents.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The system index for detection alerts has been renamed from `.siem-signals` to `.alerts-security.alerts`. As such, the schema used for alert documents in {elastic-sec} has changed. Users that access documents in the `.siem-signals` indices, such as in custom dashboards, will need to update their API queries and scripts to operate properly on the new 8.0 alert documents. 
```

> * To view alerts, users need manage, `write`, `read`, and `view_index_metadata` privileges to two new indices, `.alerts-security.alerts` and `.internal.alerts-security.alerts`. Existing users who are upgrading to 8.0 can retain their privileges to the `.siem-signals` index. Refer to <<detections-permissions-section>> for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To view alerts, users need `manage`, `write`, `read`, and `view_index_metadata` privileges to two new indices, `.alerts-security.alerts` and `.internal.alerts-security.alerts`. Existing users who are upgrading to 8.0 can retain their privileges to the `.siem-signals` index. Refer to <<detections-permissions-section>> for more information.
```

> * To <<preview-rules, preview rules>>, users need `read` access to the new `.preview.alerts-security.alerts` index. Refer to <<detections-permissions-section>> for more information.

Reviewer 2: Should this be preceded by a section header that's similar to what's on line 26?

> * You can now grant feature privileges for Cases separately from {elastic-sec}. Refer to <<case-permissions>> for more information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* You can now grant feature privileges for Cases separately from privileges for {elastic-sec}. Refer to <<case-permissions>> for more information.
```

> * New Full Disk Access approval is needed when deploying {elastic-endpoint} on macOS. Refer to [deploy-elastic-endpoint] for information.

Reviewer: Flagging this link placeholder just for visibility

[discrete]
[[features-8.0]]
== New features and enhancements

> *Rules page includes enhanced tools and a more simplified UI*

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*Rules page includes enhanced tools and a simplified UI*
```

The Rules page has been enhanced to be more compact and user-friendly so you can analyze information quickly. In addition, on the <<alerts-ui-monitor, *Rule Monitoring*>> tab, you can now perform the same actions that are available on the main *Rules* tab, such as modifying or deleting rules, activating or deactivating rules, exporting or importing rules, and duplicating prebuilt rules.
--
image::whats-new/images/8.0/rule-monitor-table.png[]
--
The rule <<import-export-rules-ui, export and import tool>> now includes any exception lists associated with the rules being exported or imported.

*Threat intelligence enhancements*

> * An explicit default value (`threat.indicator`) has been added to the threat indicator path setting that indicator match rules use when searching indicator indices for threat intelligence data. If a value for the indicator path setting has not been defined before upgrading to 8.0, migrated indicator match rules are given a default value of `threatintel.indicator`. This allows migrated rules to continue using indicator data from Filebeat 7 indices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* An explicit default value (`threat.indicator`) has been added to the threat indicator path setting that indicator match rules use when searching indicator indices for threat intelligence data. If a value for the indicator path setting has not been defined before upgrading to 8.0, migrated indicator match rules are given a default value of `threatintel.indicator`. This allows migrated rules to continue using indicator data from Filebeat 7.x indices.
```

> * An explicit default value (`threat.indicator`) has been added to the threat indicator path setting that indicator match rules use when searching indicator indices for threat intelligence data. If a value for the indicator path setting has not been defined before upgrading to 8.0, migrated indicator match rules are given a default value of `threatintel.indicator`. This allows migrated rules to continue using indicator data from Filebeat 7 indices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* An explicit default value (`threat.indicator`) has been added to the threat indicator path setting that indicator match rules use when searching indicator indices for threat intelligence data. If a value for the indicator path setting has not been defined before upgrading to 8.0, migrated indicator match rules are given a default value of `threatintel.indicator`. This allows migrated rules to continue using indicator data from {filebeat} 7 indices.
```

> * Support for the threat feed name field (`threat.feed.name`) has been added in the <<view-alert-details, Alert details>> flyout and Timeline view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Support for the `threat.feed.name`field has been added in the <<view-alert-details, Alert details>> flyout and Timeline view.
```

> * Support for the threat feed name field (`threat.feed.name`) has been added in the <<view-alert-details, Alert details>> flyout and Timeline view.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Support for the threat feed name field (`threat.feed.name`) has been added to the <<view-alert-details, Alert details>> flyout and Timeline view.
```

> * You can now use {agent} integrations with the Threat Intelligence view to ingest threat intelligence data into your environment. Filebeat Threat intel module integrations and custom integrations are also supported on the Threat Intelligence view. Refer to <<es-threat-intel-integrations>> to learn how to set this data up.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* You can now use {agent} integrations with the Threat Intelligence view to ingest threat intelligence data into your environment. The Threat Intelligence view also supports Filebeat Threat intel module integrations and custom integrations. Refer to <<es-threat-intel-integrations>> for setup instructions.
```

For detailed information about this release, check out the <<release-notes, Release notes>>.

Other versions: {security-guide-all}/7.17/whats-new.html[7.17]| {security-guide-all}/7.16/whats-new.html[7.16] | {security-guide-all}/7.15/whats-new.html[7.15] | {security-guide-all}/7.14/whats-new.html[7.14] | {security-guide-all}/7.13/whats-new.html[7.13] | {security-guide-all}/7.12/whats-new.html[7.12] | {security-guide-all}/7.11/whats-new.html[7.11] | {security-guide-all}/7.10/whats-new.html[7.10] |
{security-guide-all}/7.9/whats-new.html[7.9]

[discrete]
[[name-changes-8.0]]
== Terminology changes

*"Index patterns" has been renamed to "Data views" in {kib}*

A {kibana-ref}/data-views.html[data view] defines what specific data to display in {kib}. Each data view points to one or more index patterns, data streams, or index aliases. An *index pattern* now refers to a string that selects one or more indices. In {elastic-sec}, the default space in the Security data view is `.alerts-security.alerts-default` and includes the following index patterns:
* `auditbeat-*`
* `filebeat-*`
* `logs-*`
* `winlogbeat-*`
* `apm-*-transaction`*
* `traces-apm*`
* `endgame-*`
* `packetbeat-*`

>  To update these defaults, go to *Stack Management > Advanced Settings > Security Solution > Elasticsearch indices*.

Reviewer 2: The extra space at the start of this sentence might be causing it to render like this:
<img width="762" alt="ex-sp" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79124755/153461763-04f1e25d-d8d2-4c02-94b6-33f6d01d834d.png">

--
image::whats-new/images/8.0/data-view.png[]
--

NOTE: To make the *Data view* option appear in an environment with legacy alerts, a user with elevated role privileges must visit the {es-sec-app}, open a page that displays alert data (such as the Overview page), then refresh the page. The user's role privileges must allow them to enable the detections feature in a {kib} space. Refer to <<enable-detections-ui, Enable and access detections>> for more information.

[discrete]
[[index-updates-8.0]]
== Index and privilege updates

> *Index changes*

Reviewer 2: Flagging this in case it needs to be removed.

> * The system index for detection alerts has been renamed from `.siem-signals-<space-id>` to `.alerts-security.alerts-<space-id>`. Users who use the detections feature require new privileges for these indices. Users also need new privileges to <<alerts-ui-manage, view alerts>> and <<preview-rules, preview rules>> . Refer to <<detections-permissions-section>> for a breakdown of what privileges are required to access specific detection features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The system index for detection alerts has been renamed from `.siem-signals-<space-id>` to `.alerts-security.alerts-<space-id>` and is now a hidden index. Users who use the detections feature require new privileges for these indices. Users also need new privileges to <<alerts-ui-manage, view alerts>> and <<preview-rules, preview rules>> . Refer to <<detections-permissions-section>> for a breakdown of what privileges are required to access specific detection features.
```
